# E-Commerce Data Analysis

## Project Overview
This program is tasked to analyze the e-commerce's company data with Python's Pandas library. Users will be able to explore and transform the dataset to gather valuable information for the company, such as indentifying the top clients and calculating how much profit each had generated.

## Installation Instructions
1. **Clone the Repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ezwang8/pandas-challenge-1.git
   ```
2. **Check to make sure Python is installed on your system.**
   Open your system's terminal and type the following command:

   ```bash
   python --version
   ```

   Depending on the system, use instead:

   ```bash
   python3 --version
   ```

   The command will display `Python 3.x.x` if Python 3.x is installed. If not, you can download it in the website: [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

3. **Install Jupyter Notebook:**
   If Jupyter is not already installed, you can install it with Python by running:

   ```bash
   pip install jupyter
   ```
   
4. **Install pandas Package:**
   You can install the necessary package by running:

   ```bash
   pip install pandas
   ```

6. **In Python, navigate to the Project Directory:**
   ```bash
   cd wholesale_data_analysis
   ```

7. **Launch Jupyter Notebook:**
   To open the `.ipynb` file, launch Jupyter Notebook by running:

   ```bash
   jupyter notebook
   ```

   This will open the Jupyter Notebook interface in your default web browser.

8. **Open the Notebook:**
   In Jupyter, locate the `wholesale_data_analysis.ipynb` file. Once opened, you can run the cells within the notebook to start your analysis.

## File Roles
- **wholesale_data_analysis.ipynb:** The main script that performs the analysis. It contains the full data analysis process for exploration, transformation, and validation of the dataset.
- **client_dataset.csv:** The CSV file which is the data source used for analysis. It has a variety of data separated into columns. Including client information, order details, product categories, and quantities.

## Steps
1. **Explore the Data:** Understand the structure of the dataset and identify key features such as the top clients and most popular item categories.
2. **Transform the Data:** Perform calculations to create new columns that capture the subtotals, shipping costs, total prices, costs, and profits for each line item.
3. **Confirm Results:** Validate the transformed data against provided order receipts to ensure the calculations are accurate.
4. **Summarize and Analyze:** Create a summary DataFrame showing the total units purchased, shipping costs, total revenue, and total profit for the top 5 clients. Sort the data by total profits in descending order.

## Summary of Findings
The client who made the highest Total Profit was Client 24741 with $36.58 million in profit. More than 10 times the profit of the 2nd and 3rd highest Clients, 38378 and 66037, who only made $3.27 million and $3.25 million each.
Since the top clients generate far more profit than the average customers, the data suggests that a huge percentage of the profit is being generated by a small number of clients.
